What is Python?
Python is a popular programming language. It was created by Guido van Rossum, and released in 1991.

It is used for:
web development (server-side),
software development,
mathematics,
system scripting

What can Python do?
Python can be used on a server to create web applications.
Python can be used alongside software to create workflows.
Python can connect to database systems. It can also read and modify files.
Python can be used to handle big data and perform complex mathematics.
Python can be used for rapid prototyping, or for production-ready software development.


Why Python?
Python works on different platforms (Windows, Mac, Linux, Raspberry Pi, etc).
Python has a simple syntax similar to the English language.
Python has syntax that allows developers to write programs with fewer lines than some other programming languages.
Python runs on an interpreter system, meaning that code can be executed as soon as it is written. This means that prototyping can be very quick.
Python can be treated in a procedural way, an object-oriented way or a functional way.

Python Syntax compared to other programming languages:
Python was designed for readability, and has some similarities to the English language with influence from mathematics.
Python uses new lines to complete a command, as opposed to other programming languages which often use semicolons or parentheses.
Python relies on indentation, using whitespace, to define scope; such as the scope of loops, functions and classes. 
Other programming languages often use curly-brackets for this purpose.

Why learn Python?
There are indeed a number of reasons to choose python over any other language. Here are some of them.

1.Interpretation
Python, being an interpreted language passes straight to the interpreter, making the execution simple and quick;
unlike compilers where the machine code has to be generated 
from the source code before running.
2.OpenSource
One of the best facts about Python is that it is a free language developed under an OSI-approved open-source license.
3.Portability
Major trouble comes in transferring a code from one platform to another without making blunders in the command.
Python programming language, being a portable code can easily be transferred without making any errors.
4.Simplicity
Python is the only programming language which is quite English-like. It is quite easy to read and understand. 
Compared to C++ or Java, Python programming language uses fewer keywords. 
Hence, python language has come to the top of the preferences of developers across the world.


Advantages of Python:
1.Python is an open-source and free programming language which can be downloaded by anyone at zero cost.
2.It is a high-level programming language with an English-like Syntax, which is hence easy to understand for the beginners
3.Productivity is comparatively higher as the code is simple.
4.Python halts the code whenever there is an error, and keeps it over there until the code is error-free, 
this helps in avoiding the waste of time while creating error-free code.
5.It is a portable code, which means that you do not need to change the code while moving it onto some other platform.
6.One of the biggest advantages of python being an open-source programming language is that there are a million developers 
who are adding to the vast library helping others ease their work.
 

Disadvantages of Python:
1.It can sometimes lead to run-time errors
2.The process execution is relatively slower than the other programming languages
3.Python’s structure needs an additional memory
4.When interacting with the databases, it might not be the best choice

Which companies use Python?
Here is a list of top companies which use Python in their daily tasks.

1.Google
2.Facebook
3.Instagram
4.Dropbox
5.Spotify
6.Reddit
7.Uber
8.Netflix



How to learn Python easily?
Python is the programming language which is easiest of them all.
It has a simple format, English-like syntax, and high flexibility.
Here are some tips on how to learn Python easily.:-

1.Code regularly
Needless to say that practice makes a man perfect. It develops muscle memory and helps in avoiding silly mistakes.

2.Use Pen and Paper
Anything written by hand has high retention. While practising makes sure to use pen and paper as it would work in subconscious training for codes.

3.Program as pair
One’s a loner, two’s a team. Find yourself a friend or learner who wants to learn this programing language.
One should be the ‘driver’ and the other should be the ‘navigator’.
The Diver writes the code and the Navigator helps in solving the problems and ensures the code is error-free. 
Swap the roles from time to time to learn at the best pace.

4.Build new things
There are a lot of short exercises for python beginners. Start creating various programs with Python. This will make your output oriented.
